

===== PAGE 1 / 6 =====

1 
 
 Cyber Operations RangE [CORE]: Containerized Gaming 
Platform for Cyberoperations Competitions  
 
Michael Vieth 
DePaul University 
243 S Wabash Ave 
60604, Chicago, IL  
+1-765-894-0664 
mvieth1@mail.depaul.edu 
 
James Daniel  
DePaul University 
243 S Wabash Ave 
60604, Chicago, IL 
+1-262-312-8485 
jdanie28@mail.depaul.edu 
 
Filipo Sharevski 
DePaul University 
243 S Wabash Ave 
60604, Chicago, IL 
+1-312-362-1075 
fsharevs@cdm.depaul.edu 
 
ABSTRACT 
Cybersecurity gaming is popularized through capture-the-flag 
(CTF) competitions, war games, and forensic challenges. 
Providing 
actual 
hands-on 
experience, 
the 
cybersecurity 
competitions have great potential to support classroom learning, 
professional skill development, and scenario testing. To capitalize 
this, the supporting gaming platforms need to overcome the 
following issues: i) A complex virtualized infrastructure that 
requires extensive resources and administration, ii) Lack of 
support for real-time cyberoperations within a competition 
environment, and iii) implementation of independent, real-time 
scoring system which tracks progress and determines results of 
the competitors. In response to these issues, we have developed 
Cyber Operations RangE (CORE) - a containerized cybersecurity 
gaming platform. This paper presents the design, implementation, 
and the application of the CORE platform for real-time 
cyberoperations competitions.  
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
K.3.1 [Computers and Education]: Computer Uses in Education 
– computer-managed instruction (CMI).  
General Terms 
Security 
Keywords 
Cybersecurity 
education, 
cybersecurity 
gamification, 
cyberoperations skills, containerization.  
1. INTRODUCTION 
Cybersecurity competitions are the most popular hands-on 
exercise for security enthusiasts, students, educators, and 
professionals [1]. They range from capture-the-flag (CTF) 
competitions, war games, or forensics challenges [2], [3]. The 
CTF gaming structure provides identical challenges for each 
competitor (often organized in teams) in the domain of operating 
systems security, network/software/web security, cryptography 
and hash-functions, reverse engineering, and cyber forensics. The 
contests are organized either in a “jeopardy-style” or “attack-
defense” competition format [4]. In the jeopardy-style contests, 
there are no predefined orders for solving the challenges and the 
competitors are free to progress through each of the equal-
duration contest rounds. In the attack-defense contests, the 
competitors are given identical game boxes (virtual machines) 
which contain pre-loaded vulnerabilities and required to patch 
vulnerabilities while exploiting other game boxes [5]. Almost all 
CTF platforms are based on virtual machines and can be either 
centralized, i.e. to host on-site competitors, or decentralized, i.e. 
to host remote competitors connecting through Virtual Private 
Network (VPN) connections. 
War games are similar to the jeopardy-style CTF competitions, 
but the challenges increase in difficulty as the competitor 
progresses. In the forensic challenges, competitors are also 
provided identical problems in the domain of cyber forensics. 
These are solved independently and solutions are submitted to the 
remote gaming platform. Unlike the CTFs, the forensic challenges 
last several months and are held annually. The teams are scored 
on their solutions after the competition is closed.   
Traditionally, the jeopardy-style CTF competitions have been the 
most popular cyberforensics gaming events [4]. While these CTFs 
support classroom learning and professional skills development 
[6], [7], the attack-defense contests are more effective for the 
experiential learning because they represent more realistic 
cybersecurity scenario [8], [9]. Despite this advantage, the attack-
defense CTFs are rarely seen within cybersecurity gamification 
because they require complex gaming infrastructure that includes 
virtualization, scoring administration tasks, and abundance of 
resources  [2] [4]. Also, the competitor is expected to multitask 
between administrative tasks and the challenges, instead of 
focusing solely on the competition. 
In response to this, we developed a novel, container-based gaming 
infrastructure for cyberoperations competitions, the Cyber 
Operations RangE (CORE). The CORE platform eliminates the 
burden of a complex virtualized hosting infrastructure by 
replacing it with Docker containers and a real-time scoring 
engine. The administration is highly simplified and enables rapid 
instantiation of varied sized competitions and numerous 
challenges. To our knowledge, CORE is the first platform that 
extends beyond the classical notion of attack-defense CTFs and 
provides a true cyberoperations experience of attacking, 
defending, and live forensics. Competitors are not solely scored 
on the submitted flags, but also on the tactical approach they 
employ in the contest. Instead of level-based game progress, 
CORE forces competitors to conduct immediate cyberoperations 
action. They need to perform real-time forensics as part of their 
defensive strategy, unlike traditional forensics challenges with 
excluded time constraints. The remainder of this paper describes 
the design and the technical implementation of CORE platform, 
discusses the potential range of applications, and outlines the 
future testing and development plans.


===== PAGE 2 / 6 =====

2 
 
2. RELATED WORK  
Most of the attack-defense CTFs borrow the design from the iCTF 
competition [10]. The gaming boxes are packaged into virtual 
machines that competitors access locally (on their hardware, i.e., 
centralized gaming infrastructure) or remotely via SSH (hosted on 
the competition server, i.e., decentralized gaming infrastructure). 
Authors in [4] show that the virtualized infrastructure requires 
extensive resources and administration: the memory usage for 
hosting a competition proportionally increases with the number of 
players (virtual machines) with around 5GB for 5 players up to 
40GB for 40 players for fixed number of services.  
To overcome the virtualization and multitasking problems, they  
modified the iCTF design to develop competition infrastructure 
based on Docker containers [4]. The proposed gaming platform 
replaces the virtual machines with Docker containers and adds 
container image registry, gaming server, and flags volume 
modules to the infrastructure. The container image registry stores 
competitors’ gaming boxes - service and exploit containers hosts - 
on a single server and provides period synchronization with their 
images on the game server. The service container hosts are 
predefined competition game boxes, while the exploit containers 
are hosts developed by each of the competitors (or teams) with 
custom set of exploits. The competition has several gaming 
rounds that each consists of: service container synchronization, 
exploit container synchronization, planting flags, running exploits, 
and retrieving flags. The gameplay closely resembles bug fixing 
in software development and the competitors are scored based on 
their ability to fix the issues (i.e., capture the planted flags).   
The CORE platform also utilizes Docker containers to address the 
virtualization complexities and the extensive requirements for 
resource and administration. Relative to other competitions [4], 
CORE does not require the usage of proprietary VM automation 
software. As discussed in section 3.1.1.3 below, CORE has an 
authored custom automation (reliant on open-source software) for 
the provisioning of the minimalist operating systems on which the 
containers run on. Other virtualization environments, such as the 
National Center for Systems Security and Information Assurance 
(CSSIA), rely on closed-source software from the Network 
Development Group (NDG), which advertises subscription rates 
from $30 through $175 USD per participant [11].  
Contrasting with [4], the CORE gaming resembles a real-time 
cyberoperations to address the lack of such cybersecurity gaming 
experiences. Unlike the SANS NetWars [12], CORE competitors 
are not required to progress through levels during the contest and 
they can engage immediately in cyberoperations action. Instead of 
separating the attacking (exploit containers) and defending 
(service containers) tasks and having a gaming server to act as a 
“red-team”, CORE includes the attacking and defending in a one 
monolithic gaming box (container) to allow them to engage in 
real-time. CORE adds live forensics tasks to complement the 
defense in attributing the attack and craft another one in response.  
In addition to these two design aspects, CORE incorporates real-
time scoring engine which tracks players progress every second. 
This is implemented in order for players to see whether their 
machines have been compromised and to validate whether they 
have found pre-installed malicious programs. In comparison with 
other CTF environments, the scoring is based either upon whether 
a flag has been captured, or whether a service is still running 
(every given amount of minutes). For many competitors, this 
scoring implementation keeps the game at a slower pace and gives 
them time to recover if they were compromised. In the CORE 
environment, a competitor is either penalized or rewarded on 
checks failing/succeeding. This aspect of the scoring engine gives 
CORE a more realistic setting for an attack/defense competition. 
3. CORE – INFRASTRUCTURE 
OPERATIONS 
3.1 Systems Architecture  
The CORE architecture is shown in Figure 1. CORE assumes 
remote competitors; therefore, the client’s Secure Socket Layer 
(SSL) VPN traffic is routed to CORE’s edge request routing tier. 
SSL offloading is necessary to relieve the CPU processing burden 
on the base nodes. The competition traffic is further routed 
through load balancing peers operating on OSI Layer 4 to the base 
node tier, where each of the competitors are dispatched to their 
competition gaming boxes (implemented in Docker containers). A 
total of four environments or "pods" have been depicted, of which 
the gaming boxes reside in. CORE has the capability to deploy 
parallel production and development environments (indicated as 
ENV-A-PRD/ENV-B-PRD and ENV-A-DEV/ENV-B-DEV) for 
flexible development and on-the-fly changes between different 
cybersecurity contests. At a high level, the motivation behind 
CORE architecture was twofold: 1) ensure horizontal scalability, 
and 2) support competition-level exercise isolation (infrastructure 
security). Authoring custom systems automation tooling was 
imperative for us to achieve both goals.  
 
Figure 1: CORE Service Architecture 
 
3.1.1. Platform Scalability 
Horizontal scalability refers to the practice of “scaling out” our 
systems infrastructure to handle an increase in system load. In 
other words, we are not attempting to “scale up” (i.e., vertically


===== PAGE 3 / 6 =====

3 
 
scaling) system resources. This allows for high availability and 
agility: instead of having a single high performance server handle 
the entire traffic load, we are able to dynamically load balance 
across available servers with less provisioned resources. We 
accept the fact that failures will occur on our platform and as a 
result, we employ resilient technologies that are able to tolerate 
multiple individual failures. Large scale data center operators 
have researched such techniques at length [13].  
In our environment, platform scalability is achieved through 
multiple methods: highly available load balancers, a distributed 
data structure cluster, custom system automation tooling, 
networked storage infrastructure, and container network fabrics. 
3.1.1.1. Request Load Balancing 
A horizontally scalable architecture typically includes load 
balancers (LB) to route users to various application end-points. 
CORE load balancers were designed to: (1) provide OSI Layer 4 
load balancing services, (2) be highly available, and (3) route 
users to exactly one gaming box (container). In our environment, 
LB services at OSI Layer 4 is necessary since containers bind to a 
pre-defined range of TCP/UDP ports to serve HTTP traffic. 
Utilizing ports as an identifier for application nodes strategically 
eliminated any possibility for IPv4 address exhaustion of the 
production subnet. Furthermore, in the CORE design, Layer 4 was 
determined to be logically sound because base nodes (identified as 
an IPv4 address) host many containers (identified by multiple 
TCP/UDP ports). High availability is achieved by integrating N+1 
(active-passive) redundancy in our architecture and running 
Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) between the LBs. 
N+1 redundancy is our first step taken to eliminate potential 
single point of failures in our architecture, despite the fact that the 
failover mechanism may be one. As we scale, we plan to perform 
1+1 (active-active) redundancy with respect to a given 
environment. With VRRP, we can define a Virtual IP address 
(VIP), which migrates to a passive LB in the event one LB 
unexpectedly halts. Users navigate to a portal domain name 
(where the DNS A record is the VIP) for the environment with a 
specific user identifier in the HTTP path. LB Access Control Lists 
(ACLs) match the UID in question and load balance the user to 
that container, if no other connections have been established. If an 
invalid request is made, the LB will serve a HTTP 5XX error to 
the client. Because the LBs are aware of the competition boxes, 
we can set a limit of one connection to a container at any given 
time – also assisting us with achieving our goal of exercise 
isolation. That way, we provide another layer of security to 
prevent users from attempting to connect to other containers. 
3.1.1.2. Distributed Data Structure Cluster 
Another facet of CORE is that ensures horizontal scalability is a 
distributed 
data 
structure 
(key-value) 
cluster. 
Multiple 
infrastructure components, such as distributed lock mechanisms or 
the overlay network technology between competitor containers 
rely on the cluster nodes for storage. Currently, the data structure 
cluster is co-located on the base nodes that serve production 
traffic. With enough demand, we plan to migrate the cluster to 
dedicated servers such that a) the blast radius of a data structure 
node failure does not affect the production environment, b) 
dedicated solid-state drives increase random IOPS (Input/Output 
per Second) performance, and c) the ability to scale the cluster 
independent of the production base nodes. 
The data structure cluster is a critical component of our systems 
architecture. Thus, we must ensure that it is highly available and 
resilient, due to its stateful nature. High availability is achieved by 
the underlying algorithm [14] that empowers the cluster services 
such as leader election and node health checks: after initial 
bootstrapping, the cluster is able to determine if a node fails since 
health checks are sent out at regular intervals. If a majority of the 
cluster returns non-HTTP 200 status codes, the on-call engineer is 
paged. Data resiliency is achieved since this algorithm’s goal is to 
ensure replicated logs. For a given cluster of size N, the failure 
tolerance would be (N-1)/2). As a result, we run our cluster in odd 
numbers to ensure logs are written to it if multiple base nodes 
become unavailable. If the minimum is not satisfied, replicated 
logs will not be committed to the cluster and the cluster’s health 
will be degraded. The end result of our data structure cluster 
deployment is a fault-tolerant, replicated state machine. 
3.1.1.3. Pod Abstraction 
As demonstrated in Figure 1, we have isolated each 
“environment” into its own “pod”. Although these terms are used 
interchangeably, pods in CORE are referring specifically to a pod 
in our container orchestration infrastructure. As we deploy our 
container orchestration solution, this will become more apparent. 
Abstracting away a container’s functionality into a group of 
multiple containers is logically sound in our cyber range. We 
think of a pod as an exercise. This would contribute to a 
centralized user interface of which a competition operator can 
launch, run, and teardown competitions. Furthermore, competition 
operators can control compute, storage, and network resource 
limitations and provision more if necessary. Otherwise, it would 
become laborious for the operator responsible for administering 
the competition to manually run scripts and perform ad-hoc tasks 
as the infrastructure scales. The ability for container orchestration 
to scale our pods across multiple base nodes removes the 
necessity to create tooling to manage a given competition.  
3.1.1.4. Systems Automation Tooling 
We 
have 
implemented 
proprietary 
infrastructure-as-code 
initiatives extensively. There are numerous benefits to doing this 
(which are outside the scope of this paper), such as reduced 
human error. For instance, we have leveraged YAML manifests to 
cover 
base 
node 
provisioning, 
eliminating 
any 
manual 
bootstrapping. Furthermore, custom infrastructure tooling has 
been developed to automate authorized remote command 
execution. Software deployments are scoped into our tooling 
efforts as well. As of this writing, we estimate that 90% of 
systems administration tasks in terms of base node provisioning 
and deployment have been automated. 
3.1.1.5. Networked Storage Infrastructure 
We have noticed several issues pertaining to the deployment of 
Docker containers in terms of a storage footprint. The most 
prominent was the Docker image utilization – on average, a 
container supporting the king of the hill exercise consumes ≈ 1GB 
of disk space on a base node. As more exercises are deployed, this 
would become burdersome – especially if the other exercises 
consume 1-5GB each. Given the industry’s stance on minimalist 
containers, 1-5GB of disk usage per image is rather uncomforting 
and is not scalable in regards to base node storage. We will 
perform tests on pointing base nodes to networked storage, instead 
of having the Docker images residing locally on each base node. 
Various companies have already developed solutions, such as


===== PAGE 4 / 6 =====

4 
 
NetApp over NFS [15]. Alternatively, products such as JFrog’s 
Artifactory [16] or Sonatype’s Nexus [17] support centralized 
private Docker image registries.  
Another benefit of having networked storage is the ability to 
deploy container services, such as the scoring engine, to a 
centralized location from which base nodes can pull from, as 
opposed to pushing a copy from an operator’s workstation. As a 
result, we can further lock down base node network security in 
regards to deployments (for instance, base nodes may only access 
the storage share). 
3.1.1.6. Container Network Fabric 
To address the need for competitor box network interconnection, 
we have deployed a Layer 3 overlay network between the 
containers. For instance, in the king of the hill exercise, all 
competitors are placed on the same network segment, allowing for 
offensive/defensive operations to occur without having to pivot to 
another 
network 
segment. 
Other 
exercises, 
such 
as 
offensive/defensive scenarios, can be placed on a diverse network 
segment. We are evaluating the Virtual Extensible Local Area 
Network 
(VXLAN) 
[18] 
to 
provide 
Layer 
2 
network 
segmentation. In a VXLAN deployment, we are able to statically 
define Virtual Network Identifiers (VNIs) such that each exercise 
is mapped to exactly one VNI. L3 tunnel endpoints, known as 
VTEPs (Virtual Tunnel End Points), perform encapsulation and 
de-encapsulation of the tagged frames. Only the destination VTEP 
will receive frames. Layer 2 frames are then forwarded based on 
normal forwarding rules thereafter. 
3.2. Infrastructure Security and Monitoring 
Since CORE is intended to handle malicious computer network 
operations in an isolated manner, we took a defense-in-depth 
design 
approach 
within 
CORE’s 
network 
and 
systems 
infrastructure. Time-series based monitoring allows us to quickly 
pinpoint systems anomalies and performance bottlenecks. 
3.2.1. SSL VPN Infrastructure 
All users must establish a SSL VPN session to our production 
network (see Figure 1); split tunneling will ensure separation from 
other networks involved from a client’s perspective. Currently, 
these VPN sessions are terminated at a firewall hosted in a co-
location, but given the CPU resources required for SSL 
termination, we are exploring highly available VPN solutions. 
3.2.2. Internal Services Security 
As already noted, load balancers will be hardened in the sense that 
access control lists (ACLs) on the load balancing services will be 
implemented. Competitors will be assigned a container to access 
(user credentials will be provisioned to the user when they register 
for the competition). Furthermore, we have also mentioned of 
availing the least connection load balancing algorithm to ensure 
only one user session is active to a container at any given time. 
We are also exploring the possibility of running Transport Layer 
Security across all CORE links. 
3.2.3. Base Node Security 
Standard host network traffic filtering will be achieved by 
integrating robust iptables rulesets, which will be evaluated as 
part of the system provisioning automation. The base node 
operating system we selected has automated host updates (see 
next section) and overall has a minimal footprint in terms of 
functionality when compared to other distributions such as 
CentOS, Debian, or Fedora. Furthermore, we expect to perform 
security-related kernel parameter tweaking via sysctl.  
3.2.4. Automated Host Updates 
It is critical that the operating systems across our infrastructure is 
patched properly not only for security purposes but also for 
systems reliability and performance. Therefore, we integrated 
automated patching across all our base nodes. One of the issues 
we ran into was ensuring the data structure cluster is intact when 
the updates take place. A binary semaphore, which resides on the 
data structure cluster, is obtained when a host goes down for a 
restart, and is released once the hosts returns to active service. 
This ensures the cluster is healthy during the maintenance period. 
3.2.5. Systems Monitoring 
To monitor the performance of CORE base nodes, we have 
implemented a time-series based cloud monitoring solution to 
alert an “on-call engineer” in the event a base node, or a core 
infrastructure service on it, has failed or is in a degraded state.   
We rely extensively on StatsD [19]. for the collection of system 
performance metrics on the base nodes.   Monitoring thresholds 
are continuously being refined to ensure the on-call engineer is 
informed about any system anomaly; efforts to automate response 
of such events are currently being explored. We are also 
evaluating data collectors and alerting/archiving/analysis solutions 
for system logs. 
4. CORE – CONTEST PLATFORM 
4.1. Competition Implementation  
CORE supports real-time cyberoperations contest so the 
competitors attack, defend, and perform live forensics task. 
Typical CORE competition instance is organized in two 45 
minute sessions of competing sessions and one 15-minute 
intermission between. The CORE proof-of-concept competition 
infrastructure is shown in Figure 2.  
From a network traffic perspective, CORE administrators access 
the admin console over SSH, while the competitors access the 
competition console over HTTP.  We are aware that competitors 
might try to capture competition traffic; we plan to implement 
authentication to the REST API so clients will be forbidden from 
making GET or POST requests without authentication. At a later 
date, HTTPS will be implemented on the competition 
administrator node. 
4.1.1. Competition Administrator Console 
The CORE competition administrator console has two main 
functions: 1) container management (as explained in section 3), 
and 2) competition management through the competition console. 
Within the competition console there are several modules:  
● 
Timing engine – maintains global competition time in 
the format in format time_remaining:stage and returns it 
over the RESTful API to the Scoring Backend 
● 
Flag engine – keeps the current state of flags captured 
by the competitors 
● 
MySQL database – keeps the competition information 
about current competitors and their current score; it 
interfaces the scoring backend over the RESTful API 
● 
RESTful API – middleware interconnecting the scoring, 
timekeeping, and flag progress functions of the


===== PAGE 5 / 6 =====

5 
 
competition; provides also competition progress to the 
competitors 
over 
the 
scoring 
frontend 
(using 
websockets) 
● 
Scoring frontend – competition dashboard 
The CORE administrators have a precompiled list of subscribed 
competitors according to which the competition access should be 
provisioned. Once the gaming boxes are assigned, the competition 
console runs a script to starts the each of the above modules and 
announces the competition start over the dashboard. The starting 
script also adds a dynamically configured unique set of flags to 
each of the game boxes.  
 
Figure 2: CORE Competition Structure 
 
4.1.2. CORE Game Box 
Each competitor is assigned a game box – Docker container – that 
runs Ubuntu 14.04, XFCE Desktop (over VNC), SSH, and Python 
2.7. CORE currently uses Ubuntu 14.04 as a base image, but this 
is easily changeable. A XFCE desktop environment is enabled so 
the competitor can have graphical access to their gaming boxes 
over a VNC service. SSH is also enabled as a tool for out-of-band 
attacking and defending between the competitors in addition to 
the standard administration actions over their game boxes. Python 
2.7 is enabled to provide with ability to script and automate 
attacks/defenses/forensic analysis. During the competition, 
competitors will view the scoring frontend to keep track of the 
competition progress and to submit flags.  
4.1.3. CORE Scoring  
The competition scoring encompasses: 1) capturing other 
contender’s flags (attacking), 2) finding their own flags and 
hardening their machines (defending), and (3) completing forensic 
tasks. Each flag is weighted depending on the level of difficulty it 
takes to find. The cumulative competition score is calculated as a 
sum of the flags captured and the score of the forensics tasks 
performed. The CORE scoring considers any action by the 
competitors to start/stop/reconfigure services on the game box, 
manipulate the current file system, or system logs reviews as a 
forensics tasks and provides additional scores for these. 
To get the score in real time, the scoring backend enumerates all 
running containers located on its base node and reaches out to the 
timing script through telnet to determine when scoring starts/ends. 
The scoring engine then begins a predefined set of checks for a 
dynamic set of forensic tasks performed on each container every 
five seconds. Checks are conducted on each container using the 
Docker exec command which allows remote command execution 
on containers from the host machine. The goal of the scoring 
engine is for the checks to be conducted in real-time. Our current 
timing is achieved through a pool of four processes among which 
the containers are split evenly. A full cycle of checks currently 
takes five seconds. At the end of each cycle, the scoring engine 
reports the score via the REST API to the MySQL database where 
is added to the flags’ score and announced to the scoring frontend. 
The current scoring engine implementation (which is multi-
threaded) uses 10% of server resources on six vCPU resources 
(Intel(R) Xeon(TM) CPU @ 3.50GHz). In order to run tests, 
arbitrary test commands are listed by the REST API, retrieved by 
the scoring engine and then are thrown into a list of checks. These 
checks are ran on each container via Docker’s exec and is ran 
using a subprocess. In order to score for each container in real 
time we asynchronously run checks using a pool of workers. We 
plan to optimize the scoring engine by modifying the 
implementation using multiprocessing frameworks like gevent and 
celery (a distributed task queue library). Once we implement 
container orchestration, competition administration will be done 
from a web interface. The flag engine will be modified to accept 
any flags to be added to the machines as well as the flag locations. 
The scoring engine will obtain all flag information from the REST 
API and inject the flags into their respective locations using the 
Docker exec command. All the current competition scores are 
predefined in the configuration file.  
There is a possibility for users to compromise the scoring engine 
by breaking out of the Docker container onto the host 
environment. We mitigated this issue by assigning user 
namespaces to each competition container. In the case of a 
container breakout, a user would have to perform privilege 
escalation operations within the host of the Docker containers.  
4.2. Competition Structure  
In CORE, the traditional attack-defend rounds are replaced with 
two 45-minute rounds and one 15-minute intermission. The 
intermission is introduced to recap with the competitors. This is 
particularly important if the CORE platform is used for 
educational or training purposes so the CORE administrators 
(educators/trainers) can provide additional assistance achieve to 
competition objective. In each round, competitors are urged to 
perform the following steps:  
● 
Reconnaissance – this is the initial game box discovery 
in the first period and the other competitors 
● 
Attacking / Defending – capturing flags on others’ game 
boxes and deleting the flags on their own 
● 
Live forensic tasks – system logs reviews, system 
reconfiguration 
Competitors are free to choose their strategy how the will perform 
each of these steps. CORE’s idea is to motivate the competitors to 
accomplish each of these so they can maximize their score (or 
learning outcome in case the CORE is used for education or 
professional training).   
5. CORE – TESTING AND ROADMAP 
Several key performance indicators (KPI) from the client’s 
perspective are being explored for CORE. Because of the prospect


===== PAGE 6 / 6 =====

6 
 
of being a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solution for other higher 
education institutions, we care deeply about client performance 
metrics (for instance, HTTP Time-To-Last-Byte (TTLB)). We are 
currently considering synthetic application monitoring (i.e., 
simulated client browser behavior) from various agents hosted in 
U.S. data center POPs (points of presence) in order to gain 
external 
network 
visibility 
outside 
of 
our 
data 
center 
infrastructure. As a result, we would be enabled to quickly 
identify and remediate application performance bottlenecks. 
CORE has been initially evaluated in the development 
environment we have locally at DePaul. In a recent load test with 
a total of 15 competitor boxes running one exercise concurrently, 
roughly 26% of the development base nodes’ six vCPU resources 
(Intel(R) Xeon(TM) CPU @ 3.50GHz) were utilized. The 
competitor containers which contained the exercise consumed 
1.283GB of memory on the development base node. Compared to 
the results in [4], CORE is showing similar and promising 
performance by keeping the memory consumption average 
relatively constant at 641.93MB for hosting 15 players with fixed 
number of services throughout the entire competition time.  
For the future CORE development, we plan to allow for 
competitors organize and compete in teams. We also plan to have 
bots to run predefined exploits against the competitors. Our 
objective is to optimize the scoring engine to run asynchronously 
in real-time. Another aspect we plan to work is the dependability 
and the resilience of the CORE platform so to prevent from 
container malfunctioning and system calls manipulation 
6. CONCLUSION 
The CORE platform was developed as an effort to overcome the 
current administration burden when organizing attack-defense 
CTFs and the lack of true cyberoperations competitions in real-
time. CORE achieves these design objectives by containerizing 
the competitors’ game boxes and structuring the competition with 
distinct reconnaissance, attacking, defending, and forensic tasks.  
The CORE platform can be used for various purposes: 
competitions of varying scale, educational experiential learning, 
professional training and development, and skill-set assessments. 
Educators can use CORE teach attacking, defending, and various 
cyberoperations tactics. Developers, system administrators, and 
security professionals can use CORE to host competitions within 
their organization in order to promote security awareness in an 
amusing and competitive manner. CORE can be of benefit for a 
secure development lifecycle as it provides a flexible platform for 
customized threat analysis and scenario testing.  
7. REFERENCES 
[1] 
L. McDaniel, E. Talvi, and B. Hay, “Capture the flag as 
cyber security introduction,” Proc. Annu. Hawaii Int. 
Conf. Syst. Sci., vol. 2016–March, pp. 5479–5486, 2016. 
[2] 
Capture the Flag Time, “CTF Time,” CTFs, 2017. . 
[3] 
Trail of Bits, “Trail of Bits - Capture the Flag,” 2017. 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://trailofbits.github.io/ctf/intro/find.html. [Accessed: 
05-Mar-2017]. 
[4] 
A. S. Raj, B. Alangot, S. Prabhu, and K. Achuthan, 
“Scalable and lightweight CTF infrastructures using 
application containers,” in 2016 USENIX Workshop on 
Advances in Security Education (ASE 16), 2016. 
[5] 
C. Li and R. Kulkarni, “Survey of cybersecurity 
education through gamification,” vol. 2016–June, 2016. 
[6] 
C. Wee, M. Bashir, and N. Memon, “The Cybersecurity 
Competition Experience: Perceptions from Cybersecurity 
Workers,” in Twelfth Symposium on Usable Privacy and 
Security (SOUPS 2016), 2016. 
[7] 
W. K. Jerel, “Strategies used in capture-the-flag events 
contributing to team performance,” Naval Postgraduate 
School, 2016. 
[8] 
D. Antonioli, H. R. Ghaeini, S. Adepu, M. Ochoa, and N. 
O. Tippenhauer, “Gamifying Education and Research on 
ICS Security: Design, Implementation and Results of 
S3,” 2017. 
[9] 
A. Rege, “Multidisciplinary Experiential Learning for 
Holistic 
Cybersecurity 
Education, 
Research 
and 
Evaluation,” 2015 USENIX Summit Gaming, Games, 
Gamification Secur. Educ. (3GSE 15), pp. 1–7, 2015. 
[10] 
G. Vigna et al., “Ten Years of iCTF: The Good, The 
Bad, and The Ugly,” Usenix, 2014. 
[11] 
Network Developement Group, “Network Developement 
Group,” 
About, 
2017. 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.netdevgroup.com/. 
[Accessed: 
05-Oct-
2017]. 
[12] 
SANS Institute, “NetWARS,” About, 2017. [Online]. 
Available: https://www.sans.org/netwars. [Accessed: 05-
Oct-2017]. 
[13] 
A. Greenberg, P. Lahiri, D. a Maltz, P. Patel, and S. 
Sengupta, “Towards a next generation data center 
architecture: scalability and commoditization,” ACM 
Work. Program. routers extensible Serv. tomorrow, no. 
January, pp. 57–62, 2008. 
[14] 
L. Lamport et al., “In Search of an Understandable 
Consensus Algorithm,” Atc ’14, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 305–
320, 2014. 
[15] 
NetApp, 
“NetApp.” 
[Online]. 
Available: 
http://www.netapp.com/us/index.aspx. [Accessed: 05-
Oct-2017]. 
[16] 
jFrog, 
“Artifactory.” 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.jfrog.com. 
[17] 
Nexus, 
“Nexus 
Sonatype.” 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.sonatype.com/nexus-repository-sonatype. 
[Accessed: 05-Oct-2017]. 
[18] 
D. Dutt et al., “RFC 7348 - Virtual eXtensible Local 
Area Network (VXLAN): A Framework for Overlaying 
Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over Layer 3 Networks.” . 
[19] 
Etsy, 
“StatsD.” 
[Online]. 
Available: 
https://github.com/etsy/statsd. [Accessed: 05-Oct-2017].
